README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://ktm-schedule.vercel.app/ktm-schedule.png" alt="KTM Schedule">
</p>

<p align="center">
  KTM Berhad Malaysia train schedule. In tables and routes view.
<p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://ktm-schedule.vercel.app"><strong>Browse Website</strong></a>
</p>

## About KTM Schedule

Last updated: <strong>22 August 2022</strong>

All data is from [KTM Train Schedule](https://www.ktmb.com.my/traintime.html) up to the above last updated date.
This project is heavily inspired by [desmondyeoh's ktmTime](https://github.com/desmondyeoh/ktmTime) GitHub repo.

## How data is extracted

#### Extracting

1. Download train times in PDF format from https://www.ktmb.com.my/traintime.html.
2. Convert all the PDF files into .docx format.
3. Inside each .docx file, there will be 2 tables. Copy each individual table into its own Google Sheet tab.
4. From Google Sheet, download the file for each tab in .csv format.

#### Converting .csv to .json

<em>Note: need to use Python for this step.</em>

1. Use [Pandas](https://pypi.org/project/pandas/) to parse all .csv files to .json format.

```python
import pandas as pd

name = 'your-file-name'
df = pd.read_csv(r'./' + name + '.csv')
df.to_json(r'./' + name + '.json')
```

2. Copy all the .json files into your project.

## Tech stack used

- Next JS
- Python
- TypeScript
- Tailwind

Commit message:

migrate to app router, remove pages, update pretty much everything

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://ktm-schedule.vercel.app/opengraph-image.png" alt="KTM Komuter Timetable">
</p>

<p align="center">
  KTM Komuter Malaysia train timetable. In tables and routes view.
<p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://ktm-schedule.vercel.app"><strong>Browse Website</strong></a>
</p>

## About KTM Schedule

Last updated: <strong>July 2023</strong>

All data is from [KTM Train Schedule](https://www.ktmb.com.my/traintime.html) up to the above last updated date.

## How data is extracted

#### Extracting

<sub>All conversions are made using Python! ❤️</sub>

1. Download train times in PDF format from [https://www.ktmb.com.my/traintime.html](https://www.ktmb.com.my/traintime.html).
2. Convert all the PDF files to CSV format using [Camelot](https://camelot-py.readthedocs.io/en/master/).
3. Manually check and correct the data in the CSV files, ensuring there are no trailing commas, and each train time is placed in the correct column.
4. Convert all the CSV files to JSON format using [Pandas](https://pypi.org/project/pandas/).

## Update (July 2023)

- Updated all train times to the latest schedule **(last updated: July 2023)**.
- Migrated the old Pages router to the new App router. [Read more](https://nextjs.org/docs/app).
- Implemented URL parameters to store state, replacing the use of React context.
- Integrated [Camelot](https://camelot-py.readthedocs.io/en/master/) to directly convert PDF to CSV, eliminating the need for manual conversion to .docx.
- Added page descriptions, improved SEO, and fixed bugs.
